


# Part A

1. 

| Nr. | Tense   | Aspect         |
| --- | ------- | -------------- |
| 2   | past    | simple         |
| 4   | present | simple         |
| 11  | past    | simple         |
| 19  | past    | progressive    |
| 25  | past    | perfect simple |
| 34  | present | progressive    |

2. 13, 16, 31, 36,28

3. 2, 29, 30

4. 2 and then 3, 29 and then 30

5. 7, 10, 17, 21, 22, 33

6. 

7.  No as that would make the situation stative as it would be a property ascribed to "her" implying that she is always negative but in this situation it is purely just on this occasion, being deliberate behaviour from "her".

8. No as it would then give a situation as occurring in its entirety, but here the situation has already started and not yet finished so progressive must be used.

9. In 6 the tense is past perfect as the past time reference is already past and the situation of them being friends starts before this past time reference, it is the "pre-past time", therefore past perfect must be used as it is "time before then". The aspect is simple as being friends is a state.

# Part B

1. they were being carried out
2. they had already left
3. they were walking
4. she smiled
5. I answered
6. I turned
7. It still knocks
8. they were glancing
9. they had lost
10. they are looking
11. she just brought 
12. they made
13. Are you going to hurt me?
14. What's going on
15. I wasn't being
16. We were just talking
17. he broke --> he has broken
18. they had picked up
19. I was forced
20. you already have


# Part C

1. 
Error: they announced
Correction: they were announcing


2.
Error: were being 
Correctrion: were 


3.
Error:  
Correctrion:


4.
Error: had been taking
Correctrion: had taken

5.
Error: was still sometimes reverting
Correctrion: still sometimes reverted

6.
Error: he carried
Correctrion: he was carrying

7.
Error: have come
Correctrion: had come

8.
Error: my sister Soob is cheerleading with the squad from the beginning
Correctrion: my sister Soob has been cheerleading with the squad from the beginning

9.
Error: as long as she won't get
Correctrion: as long as she doesn't get

10.
Error: L's father was in his grave
Correctrion: L's father had been in his grave

The situation of him being in his grave is "pre-past" time. The past time already established is that day at the roller derby and the situation of him being in his grave starts "years"  before then and continues up to then. So past tense is incorrect, past perfect is needed.