

# Part A:

#### 1.    Name the tense and aspect for situations 1, 2, 3, 8, 15, 17, and 28.

| Situation: | Tense and Aspect:      |
| ---------- | ---------------------- |
| 1          | past perfect simple    |
| 2          | past simple            |
| 3          | past perfect simple    |
| 8          | present perfect simple |
| 15         | past progressive       |
| 17         | present progressive    |
| 28         | present simple         |

#### 2.    Which of situations 1-40 are stative? Please ignore any instances of the verb “be”.

5, ~~8,~~ ~~14~~, 22, ~~26~~, 28, 29, 31, 32, 34, ~~37~~

**NOTES TO ASK:**
why not 8? because it is a process, it is a change in state --> dynamic
why not 26? in this sense it is a change in state
why don't 37 or 38 count either way?

#### 3.    Which of the verbs in 1-40 are in the passive?

3, 4


#### 4.    Provide three examples of singular dynamic situations that occur in their entirety at an identifiably past time.

14, 16, 20

**NOTES TO ASK:** 
where is the identifiable past time in 2, 4 and 14? cause in past tense


#### 5.    Provide five examples of unbounded series.

39, 24, 25, 35, 11


#### 6.    Explain the choice of tense and aspect in number 11.

The tense is present because unbounded series and the aspect is progressive and it is identity of reference as the speaker is implying that when you are punctual what is really going on is respect for the other person and that their time is as valuable as yours


#### 7.    What is the time relationship between situation 15 and situation 16?
The relationship between 15 and 16 is that 15 had already started but not yet finished when 16 occurs.


#### 8.    Explain the use of “will” in number 26.

The use of will in 26 is a prediction based on a purely future time. The speaker makes a prediction that the swiss will accept them, they are focusing on an exclusively future time. They may be basing this prediction on knowledge or experience bust has no concrete signs in the present.

--> a prediction based on the speakers previous experience


---

# Part B:

1. it banged
2. it slammed
3. she was too busy
4. it had made
5. she didn't do --> she wasn't doing
6. she hadn't hit
7. they'd be
8. he spoke
9. I didn't know
10. I walked
11. She's been working
12. you're making
13. you'll have 
14. they were getting
15. you're not going to tell --> aren't you going to tell me
16. she hadn't kept --> she hadn't been keeping
17. it wasn't 
18. she slid
19. she only caught
20. she was joking

---
# Part C:

1. The situation of his attempt to relight it only producing sparks is seen as occurring in its entirety and not as having started and not yet finished when 

2. The situation of Zen identifying the key, seen as occurring in its entirety and not as having started but not yet finished. Progressive is incorrect. Simple is needed.

3. The situation of the house seeming to be bigger than Zen remembered is stative, not dynamic. The sense is a property being ascribed to the house. Progressive is incorrect. Simple is needed.

4. The situation of you opening the door is 

5. The situaction of the tradgedy occurring is identifiably past time, the past time reference we are given is "5.15 this evening". Present perfect is incorrect. Past is correct.

6. The situation of him being in hiding is time up to now. Progressive is incorrect. Perfect is correct.

7. The situation of you not hearing of him is time up to now. Past simple is incorrect. Present perfect is needed.

8. The situation of Zen being modest is dynamic not stative as 
   
9. The situation of you knowing 

10. The situation of him imagining is time before then as the contextually relevant time is past, and Zen is referring to a time before this time. Present perfect is incorrect. Past Perfect is needed.