
# Part A:

1.

| Nr. | Tense           | Aspect      |
| --- | --------------- | ----------- |
| 1   | past perfect    | simple      |
| 17  | past            | progressive |
| 18  | present         | progressive |
| 22  | past            | simple      |
| 30  | present         | simple      |
| 35  | present perfect | simple      |
3 p

2. Find five examples of stative situations in 1-36. Ignore instances of the verb “be”.
~~9~~, 13, 16, 29, 34
2 p

3. Find eight examples, from 1-36, of singular dynamic situations that occur in their entirety at an identifiably past time.
4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 19, 22, 
4p

4. Find three examples, from 1-36, of singular situations that occur in their entirety at a pre-past time.
1, 3, ~~15~~
1p

5. Explain the choice of past tense with simple aspect in 4-9.
The reason past tense is used with simple aspect is due to the fact that it is in past time and all the events are successive
1.5p

6. Would “You have just sent me this” be possible in 25?  Circle “yes” or “no” and comment on your answer.
NO
No as the situation of him having just sent him this is identifiably past to both the speaker and hearer so past tense is needed.
2p

7. Explain the choice of tense and aspect in 26.
The tense is past as it is an identifiably past time to both speaker and reader. The aspect is simple as ~~the situation is seen as occurring in its entirety~~ it is stative, as it is an opinion.
1p


8. Would “was streaming” be possible in 28?  Circle “yes” or “no” and comment on your answer.
YES
This is because the use of simple here is stylistic choice, meaning progressive is also possible.
2p

9. Explain the choice of tense and aspect in 31. Are alternative tenses / aspects possible? Why or why not?
The tense is present perfect as he has come this far "up to now". The aspect is simple because what is relevant is how much is completed "up to now".
2p


# Part B:

1. she wrung 2p
2. she laid 2p
3. it was eating 2p
4. she shouted 2p
5. it was thriving 2p
6. he liked 2p
7. it got --> it was getting
8. it began 2p
9. they were watering 2p
10. she was crying 2p
11. it was passed 2p
12. she agreed 1p
13. they did 2p
14. she lived 2p
15. it was being thrown 2p
16. they were looking 2p
17. whoever was peering 2p
18. she had failed 2p
19. We don't usually pass 2p
20. it is 2p





# Part C:

1.
Error: clouds had been forming
Correction: clouds had formed

The situation of clouds forming a dark wall is seen as having occurred in its entirety at a "pre-past time", and not as having already started and not yet finished, as the "wall forming" has to be completed in order for the view to be blocked. Therefore progressive is incorrect, simple is needed.


2.
Error: necklaces made from shells were surrounding
Correction: necklaces made from shells surrounded

The situation of necklaces surrounding a perfume display is stative, not dynamic, as the they are in a locative state, that being surrounding the display. Therefore progressive is incorrect, simple is needed.

3.
Error: When we will die
Correction: When we die

The situation of us dying is in the future, but as there is the use of the temporal clause "when...", there should be no indication of future time on the verb due to the temporal clause. Therefore will-future is incorrect, present simple is needed.

4.
Error: if he is
Correction: if he was

The situation of him being any of those things is identifiably past, the identifiable past time being when "he was not sure". Therefore present is incorrect, past is needed.

5.
Error: The captain keeps
Correction: The captain will be keeping

The situation of the captain keeping the seatbelt light on is an indirect assumption as the captain usually/normally keeps the seatbelt light on when there is turbulence. Therefore present simple is incorrect, we need will + progressive.

6.
Error: He sweated
Correction: He was sweating

The situation of him sweating is seen as having already started and not yet finished when the woman wakes him up, not as having occurred in its entirety. Therefore simple in incorrect, progressive is needed.

7.
Error: They hadn't closed it
Correction: They haven't closed it

The situation of them not having closed the compartment properly is recent and news to the hearer, as Winkler informs the woman of this. Therefore past perfect is incorrect, present perfect is needed.

8.
Error: It's opening for sure
Correction: It will open for sure 

The situation of it opening for sure is a prediction focusing on a purely future time as Winkler makes a prediction that the compartment will open "when they hit turbulence". For predictions focusing on a purely future time present progressive is incorrect, will-future is needed. 

9.
Error: I'm traveling with you
Correction: I've been traveling with you

The situation of the woman traveling with you is "time up to now" as the situation starts at an identifiable past time, that being "20 years" ago, and continues up into the present. Therefore present tense is incorrect, present perfect is needed.

10.
Error: something else went on
Correction: something else was going on

~~The situation of something else going on is seen as having already started and not yet finished when Winkler was having these dreams, and not as occurring in its entirety. This is because the "something" going on had already started when Winkler had these dreams, but had not yet finished. Therefore simple is incorrect, progressive is needed.~~

The situation of something else going on is identity of reference as Winkler is interpreting the meaning of the things he sees in his dreams: when he saw his father slicing etc,. what was actually going on was something else. Therefore simple is incorrect, progressive is needed